Aim: To design and implement a “computational solution” to a problem of your choice.

Formula 1 can be a dramatic and adrenaline-filled sport to watch. Unfortunately, it suffers from being inaccessible to the fans, with tickets being incredibly expensive, inconsistent TV coverage and a one-in-a-million chance of ever getting to drive an F1 car. This, unfortunately, means that the sport struggles to withhold its fans, particularly from the younger generations. Whilst the sport tries to remain relevant with its significant technological upgrades in recent years, like the halo and the hybrid engine, the sport is not yet capturing the audience it would like. 

This is only driven down by the uprising success of modern motorsports like Formula E that are taking major steps to capture the attention of the younger generations by streaming services for free online and hiring internet famous commentators. Formula 1 is a traditional motorsport so struggles to move away from its golden days stopping it keeping up with revolutions in modern technology that it needs to remain relevant. Whilst the sport is making steady changes under new management if Liberty Media, it is still up to the fans to advertise and uphold the true culture of Formula 1.

Many other sports, particularly football, use online games and betting services to drive people to watch and has proved to be a very effective method at increasing viewership. Therefore, I would like to create a prediction service for Formula 1 where players are driven by competition to challenge their friends and support their favourite drivers on the track.

With motorsport moving forward in technology and most news coverage beginning to appear first online, the prediction service would be well suited to any kind of computational approach. The most appropriate solution would be to develop a website that allows users to upload their predictions online and receive any points automatically, once the race weekend is over. Using a website encourages users to compare scores, with the aim to drive competition among users as well as driving new people to watch more Grand Prix.

Creating an online prediction service is ideal as I hope to have multiple users who will quickly produce a large amount of data; that data will need to be stored safely somewhere. Hence, the best approach should be to use a computer to store it all. Computers have the capability to store such data efficiently without redundancy or time delays for organisation, which benefits the structure that an online service would require. The solution lends itself well to a website format, as it allows users to log in instantly from any device, make changes and receive points efficiently, as well as being able to see calculated statistics to aid with their predictions. A website also has very little hardware and software requirements because any device connected to the internet would be able to gain access to it. Any alternative, not involving a computer, would involve a lot of manual work, organisation and time delays which wouldn’t help solve the problem. 

